   As a second-year bioinformatics student at Nova Southeastern University already completing some of the classes I needed for this program, my background in bioinformatics or biology has increased over time within the last year to now, after already finishing and completing some of the required courses such as Genomics, Introduction to Bioinformatics, Statistical Inference, Biological Data Science (Fall 2024), Metagenomics, Foundations of Programming, Data Structure, and Algorithms (Winter 2025), and most recently, Information System Project Management this past summer. In terms of knowing how much information I know relating to this particular topic, I would say that it is beyond the relationship and connection between using biological data that one can pull from, such as KBase, PubMed, or even NCBI, and computer science to analyze these forms of biological samples that exist in the science community. Having completed some of the courses last year and reflecting on what I learned, I have acquired a strong foundation in several disciplines, including genomic analysis, statistical analysis, computing, and project management, among others. By taking the classes "Genomics," "Introduction to Bioinformatics," and "Metagenomics," I acquired the knowledge necessary to transform raw sequencing data into interpretable biological information. This included performing quality control, read alignment (for example, HISAT2), transcript assembly and quantification (StringTie), differential analysis, and metagenomic taxonomic/functional profiling (for example, Kaiju), as well as validating results with tools such as Qualimap and organizing end-to-end, reproducible workflows in KBase.
   Additionally, this included performing these tasks. In the course of my studies in Statistical Inference and Biological Data Science, I was able to enhance my capabilities in the areas of conducting investigations, selecting models that are pertinent to the situation, evaluating uncertainty, and successfully communicating findings through visualizations that are of a quality suitable for publication. Taking classes in Foundations of Programming and Data Structures and Algorithms helped me increase my understanding of algorithmic thinking, my awareness of complexity, and the software techniques that make analyses dependable and scalable. All of these improvements were brought about by the lessons. A course in Information Systems Project Management that I recently finished taught me how to scope difficulties, manage risks, and produce findings on time. I am grateful for the opportunity to have gained this knowledge. These are all skills that are required to carry out research in collaboration with others successfully. Literature and databases (like PubMed and NCBI) are frequently incorporated into my studies. This is done to guarantee that my findings are based on the most recent information available. Here are some of the objectives that I have for the Graduate Seminar: I want to accomplish two things: (1) I want to improve my scholarly communication by transforming complicated computational results into succinct, compelling presentations and writing that has been peer-reviewed; and (2) I want to develop a polished, feasible research proposal that synthesises current literature with a small but rigorous computational pilot. Eventually, these two goals will position me for work at the thesis level and future publications.
